In the last lecture, we had a first look at combinators, at one combinator to be precise.
Now there are more combinators, four very important ones to be precise.
Now combinators allow us to be more clear about our rules and select elements by passing more information
to the selector.
Now you can combine multiple selectors, not just two as a side note
and as I mentioned, you can combine them with four important types of combinators.
The first one is the adjacent sibling combinator,
the second one is the general sibling combinator,
then we have the child combinator and the descendant combinator.
Now how do they look like?
Here are some CSS snippets. The first one, the adjacent sibling is added by adding a plus between the
selectors you want to combine and again these could be more than two,
you could add more to this list,
so it could be div + p + a to select anchor tags that are connected to the paragraph and div
but how are they connected?
That's something we'll explore in just a second. General sibling
uses the tilde sign here between the selectors we want to combine. Child uses a greater than sign
and descendant uses a whitespace and
this is the one we use in the last lecture.
Now what do they do in detail?
The adjacent sibling selector simply is defined like this, again you could as for all selectors combine
multiple ones and it simply assigns a style as shown in this example.
Here we set a red color,
it assigns it to all paragraphs that directly follow a h2 tag, which is why the first and last paragraph
gets the red color here
and the second one doesn't because the second one follows a h3 tag which is in between a h2 tag
and the paragraph
and therefore it's not a direct sibling of the h2 tag. The plus requires a direct siblingship so
to say though and therefore only direct siblings get the red color.
Now if you were to combine more than two selectors,
so h2 + p + a, then only anchor tags
next to paragraphs that are next to h2 tags would get the red color.
So elements have to share the same parent here, that's also an important thing to keep in mind,
they have to be on the same level
and the second element or third or whatever you are selecting has to come immediately after the first
or second, whatever you are selecting, element. The general sibling selector is connected to that
but more flexible.
It looks like this, this is the syntax
and here's a code snippet. Here
all paragraphs get the red color, even though the second one doesn't directly follow a h2 tag. For the
general sibling, it's only important that there is a h2 sibling, doesn't have to be directly in front
of it, just an h2 element on the same level as the paragraph in this case,
this is the general sibling. So important thing here, you have to have the same parent
and the second element comes after the first one but doesn't have to come directly after it.
The child combinator uses that greater sign and that rule would change the following HTML the code to have
a red color on the first and last paragraph but not on the one which is nested inside the article because
this child combinator says any paragraph that is a direct child
of a div should get that style. Now again you can use multiple here, not just two,
you could also say an anchor tag inside a paragraph inside a div where each element is a direct child of
the other should get a certain style and that allows you to be very precise about which childs you
want to target.
This is not the combinator we used in the last lecture because there I showed you that it doesn't matter
if you have a direct parent or not,
so this only apply styles if you are a direct child of an element.
The last one which is the one we used is the descendant combinator, just the whitespace and here, the level
on which you are doesn't matter,
here in this example, all paragraphs get the red color no matter if they are a direct child of the div or
not simply because here it just matters that there is a div somewhere above them in the DOM so to say,
doesn't have to be a direct parent.
So the second element is just a descendent of the first element, not a direct child.
Now this probably is the combinator you use most often. Important about combinators, definitely use them
if they allow you to be more precise but you should be aware that direct selectors without combinators
are showing a little bit of a better performance.
That being said, it's not like combinators are super bad and it's also matters on what you combine.
In our code for example, this combinator here has a pretty good performance because we're very clear about
the element,
it would be worse if we had the star for example and we're then using an ID which has awesome performance
because there aren't many IDs on the page.
By the way, the performance for classes is also pretty great,
so classes IDs, these have great performance,
combinators which use them also tend to do pretty good.
So combinators can be really helpful,
this one is probably the combinator you use most often and they allow you to really ensure that you only
style the elements in the parts of your app where you want to style them.
Now let me comment this out again and let's continue.